A long time ago, mankind was touched by the planet's anger,
and the world was engulfed in flames.
It was the Day of the Cataclysm.
The flames burned ferociously,
with an intensity threatening to incinerate the places mankind lived,
the languages they spoke, and the culture they had built up.
--Látom. --Látom.
Haran has been martyred, and returned to the flame.
"Knights of the Ashen Flame" "Commando Unit" "Yona"
However, a new demon was born there. Also...
"Knights of the Ashen Flame" "Primary Vice-Commander" "Arrow"
...we confirmed that the Adolla Burst possessed by the 8th's new recruit...
...had an Adolla Link with the demon.
An Adolla Link? I want it at any cost. It is what the Evangelist desires.
It would be a waste to leave it in the Fire Force.
It may also be connected...
I will go along next time.
"Knights of the Ashen Flame" "Commander" "Sho Kusakabe"
Supplementary crewmen? I don't care who they are, that was unusually fast.
Haijima said the 8th doesn't have a science team,
so they strong-armed this one through.
They're plotting something.
Strong-armed?
I thought that it was because after the Evangelist incident,
each company was instructed by the empire to beef up their forensics.
It's true, our science team is lacking, and we have been searching,
but we have been making do with help from the 5th's Captain Hibana.
Yes, but you can't rely on another company's captain forever, can you?
Which is why I'm here from Haijima.
Viktor Licht, hereby assigned as Special Fire Force Company 8's forensic team.
"Forensic Science Team" "Unpowered" "Viktor Licht"
I smell a rat.
A Fire Soldier always salutes with the right hand.
Oh, sorry about that, Lieutenant Hinawa.
I'm a scientist, and all. My bad, my bad.
So... ...as a scientist...!
--Whoa, easy! --Are these the Adolla Burst feet?!
Oh, let's see here...!
Do not touch Shinra so casually!
Mm-hmm.
Crunch!
"Viktor"
Viktor Licht.
Advanced placement into Tokyo Imperial University.
On top of which, after graduating at the top of your class,
you headed the applied pyrokinesiology lab at Haijima Heavy Industries.
So I'm brilliant. Sorry.
--So why would someone as brilliant as you join a dump like the 8th?
--Hey! --So why would someone as brilliant as you join a dump like the 8th?
I used to be all cooped up by myself in my lab at Haijima,
so I thought I'd get my hands on some raw data
through an outfit that was much closer to the scene of the action.
If there are any problems, you can kick me out, but please let me join you.
From what I can see, far from having a science team,
you don't even have an engineer, do you?
"Position" "Captain" "Engineer" "Equipment" "Cleaning" "Cooking" "Science" "First Class Fire Soldier" "Second Class Fire Soldier" "Crap Knight King" "Second Class Fire Soldier
"Name" "Obi" "Hinawa"
"Maki" "Shinra" "Arthur" "Tamaki"
Who is servicing your vehicle right now?
If you're careless with machinery, you'll be up a creek later on.
We have a line on an engineer. Lieutenant, have you contacted him yet?
No, still no word from Vulcan.
You guys are trying to get him on your crew?
Who is he?
From Haijima to the Special Fire Force,
everyone who's tried to recruit him so far has been turned away.
He's Vulcan--
someone with crackerjack skill that lives up to the name
of the God of Fire and the Forge.
Perhaps we should pay a visit to his workshop directly sometime soon.
I wouldn't recommend it. He hates Haijima,
and apparently also hates the Special Fire Force for dealing with them.
You'll just end up getting driven away.
Shinra,
would you head over to Vulcan's workshop with Arthur and the sister?
I want you to go see if he's someone appropriate for the 8th.
You want us to go and make such an important decision?
You're around the same age as Vulcan.
Don't be too eager. Just go by how you honestly feel about it.
--Yes, sir! --Yes, sir!
Better go in your street clothes so you don't look too uptight.
But there's no need to be cagey about who we are.
Be sure not to mislead him about anything.
He being who he is, if you just get to say hello, you'll be successful.
Roger wilco, sir!
--Whereas the other companies tried to address him with money or status, --"Roger wilco"? What does that mean?
--Whereas the other companies tried to address him with money or status, --It's something the people at the 7th were using.
--they're persuading him with these kids. --It's something the people at the 7th were using.
--they're persuading him with these kids. --What a delightful expression.
--What a delightful expression.
Vulcan has a bona fide hatred of the Fire Force. This is a fool's errand.
We at the 8th are trying to transform this country.
Might as well go for it.
Always with the fascinating moves.
I guess we'll get to see...
...if the 8th will be useful to us for achieving our objective.
I've seen the animal with the long snout in a picture book before.
Let's see, what was it called again? "Elephant," was it?
This place is incredible.
Excuse us, please!
Maybe he isn't in.
Maybe he's pretending not to be in.
Second Class Fire Soldier Arthur Boyle, the Knight King!
You dare show hostility toward the Knight King?
He was reacting to you being a Fire Soldier!
Get lost!
Ee-yow!
"Stinging"
Hmph, how thickheaded.
Eep!
Ah! Hey, you! Stop screwing around and get out here!
Projectile weapons don't work against Knights!
Um, was there something you needed?
--Huh?! --Huh?!
Látom.
Please excuse us. We're here from Special Fire Force Company 8.
I'm First Class Fire Soldier Shinra Kusakabe.
I'm a hero.
If you Fire Soldiers have come here,
you must want to recruit the master.
Master? I've returned with the parts you asked for.
Eep!
Yu, I told you not to call me "master."
Either call me "Vulcan" or "scumbag."
Okay, Vulcan, I have all the parts in my bag.
--Hold it, scumbag! --Hold it, scumbag!
Hey, that's enough-- What? There's someone else inside?
I'm not helping Fire Soldiers. Leave!
He really is a dyed-in-the-wool hater of Fire Soldiers, isn't he?
Aw, we're gonna get nowhere if he's this defiant right off the bat.
Let's get out of here.
Just a moment, please!
I'll hear what you have to say, if that's all right.
"Episode 15: The Blacksmith's Dream"
The sound of his work is rhythmic.
Did Vulcan make everything around here?
Pretty much.
There's stuff from his father and grandfather, too, though.
Yu, was it? Does Vulcan make you run his errands for him?
Of course he doesn't make me.
I'm sort of Vulcan's self-styled apprentice.
I've always loved tinkering with machines,
and after falling in love with Vulcan's skill,
I ended up supporting him with his work.
Although lately, I am more like his gofer.
Hm? It wasn't like this before?
Vulcan's skill is the real deal.
His security, the precision of his work, his speed, his creativity...
He has everything a craftsman needs.
His taste in skulls may be a bit troubling, though.
So he gets a lot of recruiters from Haijima and the Fire Force.
But Vulcan sends away every last one of them.
As a result, thanks to some doing by Haijima, who was not amused by this,
the merchants that were once providing materials to Vulcan
have now all stopped doing so.
That's where I come in,
running around to different junk dealers to collect his materials.
No wonder he hates Haijima.
Still, it seems like there's some other reason
for Vulcan's hatred of Haijima and the Fire Force.
The 8th isn't like the other companies. I guarantee it.
So, can I ask you to at least get Vulcan to hear what we have to say?
You're from the Fire Force, but you're not like all the others before you.
All right. With that in mind...
You're sure about coming in without asking first?
I may have Vulcan getting mad at me, but... Eep!
Wait, this is a machine?
"Stinging"
Ow! Was that a knuckleball?!
Another machine?!
This is Lisa-san. She lives with Vulcan-san.
Hey, Yu!
Don't go letting the Special Fire Force in here!
Ow! You're hurting me!
He's putting that together with awesome speed.
Almost like he's beating on drums.
Huh?!
Yes! Done!
Why did you kick it after you just finished making it? You'll break it.
A machine that would break that easily is no different than a defective unit.
And hey, who said you could come in here?!
Now, now, easy...
Hey, Yu, what are you doing?! We have guests! Bring some tea!
Yes, sir!
Oh... Thanks.
As if!
At least hear us out!
I've heard more than enough Fire Soldier tripe.
You've got nothing I want to hear!
Idiot.
Vul, it's him again.
All right.
You'll be all right by yourself?
No problem.
"Special Fire Force Company 3" "Captain" "Dr. Giovanni"
It's the captain of the 3rd.
The 3rd is the one that's under Haijima's control.
Haijima is going to snatch up Vulcan.
But if Vulcan goes there, his dream won't ever come true.
How has your work been going ever since?
You've liked animals since you were a child, haven't you?
That was a damn dirty trick to play!
You're the one who stopped the supply line to my workshop, aren't you?!
Do you see now that you can't build things with just blueprints?
Stop being so stubborn and come join the 3rd.
We have all the material you need.
I wouldn't even change a mini light bulb under your directions!
This is your final warning.
Don't blame me if you choose to ignore it.
Are you going to kill me if I do, like you did my pop and granddad?
What are you talking about?
You backstabber!
What a pity.
Your genius will be lost if you stay in a scrapyard like this.
Are you still carrying on about the world's animals?
Shut up!
It's a worthless dream.
Don't you sneer at my dreams when you left for money and power!
If you were to offer your skill and talents to the empire,
just imagine how many people's lives could be saved.
Your dream is so preposterous, it isn't even funny.
You still here, you damn Fire Soldier?
So Haijima is exerting pressure?
It doesn't have anything to do with you.
Yes it does.
The 8th was formed to do internal investigations of the other companies.
We're not like the companies who are constrained by outside organizations.
We genuinely want to save people.
So, Vulcan, we want to help you.
Where did that come from?!
Sorry. I touched where I shouldn't have, and it did something it shouldn't have.
Don't touch where you shouldn't. We're having a serious talk, here.
"Anticipation"
What does this do?
No! Under no circumstances push that!
Why'd you do that?!
Hey, this isn't stopping.
Then hold it!
What's this here?
No, don't touch that, either!
Pushy-push!
The elephant!
What does this do?
Not this one!
Oh, I'm sorry.
How are you guys so messed up? Are you really Fire Soldiers?
You can't go back without accomplishing anything, can you?
I'm about to show you something that will make your trip worth it,
so once I do, leave me in peace.
What is it?
I haven't seen it in a long time, either!
Hey, can I take this with me, too?
Leave it here.
That should do it.
What is it? Did you make it?
I made it with my pop and granddad when I was a kid.
Now, just watch.
I don't ever want to make just ordinary machines.
Did you know that long ago,
there were over 1,750,000 species of animals in the world?
A-Awesome... Are these... elephants?
Are those...?
Migratory birds. Once, they flew around from continent to continent,
but now, there's nowhere left for them to go home to.
Why is this?
I just can't... hold back my tears...
Amaterasu can only provide energy for the empire's people.
So I want to create an energy source
that will allow the whole world to come back to life,
and bring the animals that have gone extinct back into this world.
That's my dream.
Someone who can use technology for lives other than his own...
Captain Obi, Vulcan is a good fit for the 8th!
Every time I see it, it's fantastic! Shinra-san, what did you all think?
I was impressed!
Holy cow.
Listen, Vulcan, I'm sure you'll love the 8th, too!
Would you at least come and meet our captain, just once?
No.
No matter what you tell me,
I'm not keen on associating with anyone who's under Haijima's thumb.
I'll go my own way.
Same old Vulcan.
How long have you been with him?
I lost my parents in a fire caused by an Infernal.
I lost everyone close to me, and almost got stuck into a convent,
but I'm not about to become a sister.
Oh, sorry. You're a sister, aren't you?
Oh, that's okay.
I... ran away from there.
But... I lost my place to stay out of the rain,
and when I spent the night in this scrapyard...
...Vulcan took me in.
He's a kind man, isn't he?
He's kind, all right. Unusually so.
No matter how much more Vulcan has to look after others,
he just figures he can work that much harder.
Whose grave is this?
That's Vulcan's father and grandfather's grave.
I heard they both became Infernals at the same time.
Is that something that happens a lot? Vulcan seems skeptical of Giovanni.
Why does he suspect Giovanni?
Vulcan's grandfather had two apprentices.
One of them was Vulcan's father; the other one was Giovanni.
Right after the two of them died unnatural deaths,
Giovanni went to work for Haijima.
That's something that was strictly forbidden by their master.
Forbidden?
Vulcan's whole family has apparently had history with Haijima going way back.
I should be getting in to start making Vul his supper.
I hate to say this, but you should give up and leave.
I'm sorry I wasn't any more help.
Don't be like that--
The time has come. Kill Vulcan.
It's that same sensation as before.
That time, it was Lieutenant Konro's cry for help.
This time, it's Dr. Giovanni's hostile intent.
It doesn't look like we can persuade him.
Maybe we should head back to the 8th for now.
We can't leave here now.
Hero's intuition.
"To be continued"
"Next time"
"Episode 16: We Are Family"